doc: split preprocessing into ref and explanation (#7466)
ocaml/dune: doc/reference/preprocessing-spec.rst

executed from the root of the current build context. It's expected to be an
action that reads the file given as a dependency named ``input-file`` and
outputs the preprocessed file on its standard output.

More precisely, ``(preprocess (action <action>))`` acts as if
you had set up a rule for every file of the form::

  (rule
   (target file.pp.ml)
   (deps file.ml)
   (action
    (with-stdout-to %{target}
     (chdir %{workspace_root} <action>))))

The equivalent of a ``-pp <command>`` option passed to the OCaml compiler is
``(system "<command> %{input-file}")``.

Using PPX Rewriters
-------------------

If ``(pps <ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)`` is used, the corresponding rewriters are
set up using the "fast pipeline" (using a separate preprocessing step).
If ``(staged_pps <ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)`` is used, they are set up using
the "classic pipeline" (using the ``-ppx`` command-line argument).

The distinction between these pipelines is explained in
:doc:`../explanation/preprocessing`.

Arguments to PPX Rewriters
--------------------------

In ``(pps <ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)`` and ``(staged_pps
<ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)``, ``<ppx-rewriters-and-flags>`` is a sequence where

> each element is either a command line flag if starting with a ``-`` or the name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each element is either a command line flag if it starts with a ``-`` or the name
```

-------------

The ``future_syntax`` specification is a special value that brings some of the
newer OCaml syntaxes to older compilers.

It is equivalent to ``no_preprocessing`` when using one of the most recent
versions of the compiler. When using an older one, it is a shim preprocessor
that backports some of the newer syntax elements. This allows you to use some
of the new OCaml features while keeping compatibility with older compilers.

One example of supported syntax is the custom ``let-syntax`` that was
introduced in 4.08, allowing the user to define custom ``let`` operators.

Note that this feature is implemented by the third-party `ocaml-syntax-shims
project <https://github.com/ocaml-ppx/ocaml-syntax-shims>`_, so if you use this
feature, you must also declare a dependency on this package.

Per-Module Preprocessing Specification
--------------------------------------

By default, a preprocessing specification applies to all modules in the
library/set of executables. It's possible to select the preprocessing on a
module-by-module basis by using the ``(per-module ...)`` syntax. For instance::

  (preprocess
   (per_module
    (((action (run ./pp.sh X=1 %{input-file})) foo bar))

>     (((action (run ./pp.sh X=2 %{input-file})) baz))))

Reviewer: It seems like there are too many brackets here. Is this really the case?

             : (action <action>)
             : (pps <ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)
             : (staged_pps <ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)
             : future_syntax

no_preprocessing
----------------

Whtn ``no_preprocessing`` is passed, files are given as-is to the compiler.
This is the default behavior.

.. _preprocessing-actions:

Preprocessing with Actions
--------------------------

In ``(action <action>)``, ``<action>`` uses the same DSL as described in
:doc:`actions`, and for the same reason given in that section, it will be
executed from the root of the current build context. It's expected to be an
action that reads the file given as a dependency named ``input-file`` and
outputs the preprocessed file on its standard output.

More precisely, ``(preprocess (action <action>))`` acts as if
you had set up a rule for every file of the form:

.. code:: dune

   (rule
    (target file.pp.ml)
    (deps file.ml)
    (action
     (with-stdout-to %{target}
      (chdir %{workspace_root} <action>))))

The equivalent of a ``-pp <command>`` option passed to the OCaml compiler is
``(system "<command> %{input-file}")``.

Using PPX Rewriters
-------------------

> If ``(pps <ppx-rewriters-and-flags>)`` is used, the corresponding rewriters are set up using the "fast pipeline" (using a separate preprocessing step).

Reviewer: Could you wrap these lines?
